
What is Selenium ?
1 Selenium is one of the most widely used open source Web UI (User Interface) automation testing suite.
It was originally developed by Jason Huggins in 2004 as an internal tool at Thought Works. 
2 Selenium supports automation across different browsers, platforms and programming languages.
3 Selenium can be easily deployed on platforms such as Windows, Linux, Solaris and Macintosh. Moreover, it supports OS (Operating System) for mobile applications like iOS, windows mobile and android.
Selenium supports a variety of programming languages through the use of drivers specific to each 
language.Languages supported by Selenium include C#, Java, Perl, PHP, Python and Ruby. Currently, 
Selenium Web driver is most popular with Java and C#. Selenium test scripts can be coded in any of the
supported programming languages and can be run directly in most modern web browsers. 
4 Browsers supported by Selenium include Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome and Safari.
5 Selenium can be used to automate functional tests and can be integrated with automation test tools
such as Maven, Jenkins, & Docker to achieve continuous testing. 
5 It can also be integrated with tools such as TestNG, & JUnit for managing test cases and generating 
reports.

Selenium has basically 4 Components -

Selenium IDE - Is a plugin for Chrome/Firefox, which records the user actions and then executes them as a
test script.

Selenium RC(Remote Control) Server - Test scripts created by the QA are send to this server then the 
Server sends them to browser.

WebDriver - Is an Interface allow us to create test scripts and work on web elements to do operations on it.
It uses JSON Wire Protocol.

Selenium Grid - Allows us to perform multiple tests on multiple machine at a same time.
It uses W3C Protocol.

Architecture of Selenium Suite -

			 Selenium Suite
		IDE	RC	WebDriver	Grid
			Selenium2.0(Merged RC+WebDriver)
			Selenium3.0(New advanced features with Bug fixtures of 2.0)

What is Selenese? 
Selenese is the set of Selenium commands which are used to test your web application.
And its classified as - Actions, Assertions and Accessors.

Pros & Cons of Selenium ?

PROS - 

1 Cross-browser compatibility: Supports many browsers, including Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Internet Explorer 
2 Community support: Has a community of users who can help with issues 
3 Supports multiple programming languages: Can be used with many different programming languages 
4 Mobile testing: Can test native, hybrid, or web mobile apps with additional software 
4 Handles dynamic elements: Can wait for page elements to load and interact with dynamic content

CONS -
1 Limited reporting: Lacks built-in reporting capabilities, so test results need to be managed using external tools 
2 Limited support for desktop applications: Primarily designed for web application testing 
3 Complex setup: Setting up and configuring a test framework from scratch can be time consuming 
4 Challenges with dynamic elements: Can generate false positives and negatives, which can mislead the testing team 
5 Code-based: Requires code to set up, implement, and maintain tests  
6 Selenium cant automate Gaming apks & Captcha.

 