												AGILE/SCRUM
												
	Agile means - able to move quickly and easily. (It's a METHODOLOGY)
	Scrum means - a crowd of people or things.	(It's a FRAMEWORK)
											
- AGILE - Agile methodology is a project management approach that prioritizes continuous improvement. 
It divides projects into smaller phases and guides teams through cycles of planning, execution, and evaluation.

Scrum in Agile - Scrum is a management framework that teams use to self-organize and work towards a common goal. 
It describes a set of meetings, tools, and roles for efficient project delivery. Much like a sports team 
practicing for a big match, Scrum practices allow teams to self-manage, learn from experience, and adapt to
change. Software teams use Scrum to solve complex problems cost effectively and sustainably.

- What are Scrum artifacts ?

- Product Backlog - list of features, requirements, enhancements, and fixes that must be completed for project
success. It is essentially the team’s to-do list, which is constantly revisited and reprioritized to adapt to
market changes. The product owner maintains and updates the list, removing irrelevant items or adding new 
requests from customers.

- Sprint Backlog - The Sprint Backlog is the list of items to be completed by the development team in the current
Sprint cycle. Before each Sprint, the team chooses which items it will work on from the Product Backlog. 
A Sprint Backlog is flexible and can evolve during a Sprint.

- What are Scrum roles ?

Product Owner, Scrum development team, Scrum Master, 

- What are Scrum events?
	
Daily Scrum or stand-up - 15 mins Onwer SM
Backlog Refinement - 1hr - PO Story pointing parameters - Complexity/Efforts/Uncertainity - 1,2,3,5 Plan it poker for voting
Sprint Planning - 1hr - SM owner PO 
Sprint Retrospective - SM - qa dev leads PO open forum	- IdeaBoardz 
Sprint Review/Demo - Stakeholders / client / dev qa leads PO
				

How many types of Issues we've in JIRA ?
- Feature, Epic, Bug Story, Spike(Research) Technical Debt

Stages your ticket undergoes ?
Bcklog - InProgress - Cancel - StakeholderReview(PO) - Approved/ReadyToShip

What is Acceptance Criteria ? - Entry gate

What is Definition of Done ? 

What is Definition of Ready ? your ticket shud properly groomed

