GIT NOTES

1. The git init command creates a new Git repository. initialize a new, empty repository. Most other Git commands are not available outside of an initialized repository, so this is usually the first command you'll run in a new project.
2. Clone the repo --> git clone copied repo url + press enter
3. git restore FILENAME - It is used to undo changes made in a specific file
4. git status - We can get to know on which file changes  we've did. When changes happened(Add/Delete/Update-Modified) in case of Add it's showed in Green when modified/deleted showed in Red
5. git add FILENAME - it is used to add your file to Staging Area first 
6. git commit -m "message" - It is used to finalise/save your changes of the local repo. As after commit if you do git status you'll find working tree is clean. Nothing to commit.
7. git push origin BRANCHNAME(LOCAL BRANCH) - It helps to push my Local Changes to Main/Remote Repo and it'll generate a PR link and now it's ready for review.
8. git pull origin BRANCHNAME - Pulls a specific branch changes either from any specified Branch or Master branch in your Local

9. git fetch - fetch all(incompleted PRs like Draft or Open) the existing Repo from Remote to Local repo 

10. git checkout BRANCHNAME - If your Local Branch already exists, you can simply use this cmd/ It is used to switch b/w Branches in Local Repo.
11. git checkout -b BRANCHNAME - When you wanted to create new Local branch and make you switch onto it. It is used to switch b/w Branches in Local Repo.
12. git branch - It'll give you the list of All the Local Branches which are present in you Local Repo.

13. git branch -d BRANCH_NAME - In order to Delete your Local Branch. Without forcefully. Ex - No unchanged file, code merged.
14. git branch -D BRANCH_NAME - In order to Delete your Local Branch Do forcefully. Ex - When changes are in Staging area. 

15. git stash - save your changes temporarily so that we can switch or create a new branch. Ex - You're working o a P2 ticket and suddenly asked to work on P1. In that case you can stash your changes of P2 switch branch and start working on P1.
16. git stash list - will show list of all stash with the saved index
17. git stash show stash@{Pass Index} - will show all changes have done in particualr stash 
18. git stash apply stash@{Pass Index} - will revert the changes of particular stash and saved the copy of stash
19. git stash pop stash@{Pass Index} -will revert the changes of particular stash and remove the stash from list

