Inheritance - When a class acquires all the properties and behaviors of a parent class.
It's of 5 types.
It is an important part of OOPs (Object Oriented programming system).

Why we should use it -
For Method Overriding (so runtime polymorphism can be achieved).
For Code Reusability.

Types of it -
Three types of inheritance in java: Single, Multiple, multilevel, hierarchical and Hybrid. 

Note: Multiple inheritance isn't not supported in Java through class.

Single inheritance means Single(1)Parent (1)Child. A class has a single child class.
Dog class inherits the Animal class, so there is the single inheritance.
Ex - A(Parent)
	|_B(Child)

Multiple inheritance means - Multiple (2 or more)Parents class have 1 single child class.
It's highly discarded bcz suppose Class A & B are the Parent of Class C. And Parent class have common method now child class wud be 
confused whose method to implement. Since compile-time errors are better than runtime errors, Java renders compile-time error if we 
inherit 2 classes. But for the Java provides INTERFACE to implement multiple inheritance. Ex- class A implements B,C where(B & C)
are INTERFACE.

Ex - A(Parent)	    B(Parent)
	        |_C(Child of A and B)	
 

Multilevel inheritance - Stairs (one by one - Level by level)When A is a parent of B but B is alos a parent of C and C is also a Parent of D
When there is a chain of inheritance, it is known as multilevel inheritance.
BabyDog class inherits the Dog class which again inherits the Animal class, so there is a multilevel inheritance.
By creating Babydog's obj we can access all the methods of Babydog, dog & animal class
Ex - A(Parent)
	 |
	 B(Parent of C)
	 |
	 C(Parent of D)
	 |
	 D
	 
Hierarchial - As name suggest we follow Hierarchy here like in office we've AVPs under them Managers, TL, Assosicate etc.
When one parent class have multiple child classes.
Ex- 		A(Parent)(AVP)
            |   |   | 
           B(Mngr)    C(TL)   D(Assosciate)

Hybrid - As name suggest when 2 different things mixed on the basis of there property/behaviour then its called as HYBRID.
Its a combo of more than 1 inheritance. In the below ex- A is a Parent of B, B is a Parent of C and C is a Parent of D. It's SINGLE INHERITANCE.
For sometime if we forget about class A and only see class B then it's HIERARCHIAL INHERITANCE. As B has multiple child. 

	 A(Parent)
	 |
	 B(Parent of C)
	 |      |
	 C      Z
	 |
	 D 		




